# An Investigation into the Features of Disinformation that may lead to it being Spread Online 

At the start of 2023, a total of 5.16 billion people around the world used the internet, which is equivalent to nearly 65% percent of the world’s total population. The penetration of the internet is undeniably growing, with social media in particular growing at a rapid pace with a 79.1% jump in social media users in just five years.  With the spectacular rise of the internet, however, comes a hidden danger – a more fertile ground for disinformation. Disinformation is false information which is deliberately intended to mislead—intentionally making the misstating facts. 
In recent times, the issue of disinformation has become increasingly apparent and problematic. In a study conducted and published by the EU, it was found that trust in EU institutions such as healthcare, police, and news media have been steadily declining over the past 2 years, with the study alluding to over-reliance on social media for news as the potential culprit.  In fact, it was found that in 2021, a little under half of all U.S adults got their news from social media ‘often’ or ‘sometimes’, with almost a third getting their news from Twitter. From the spread of climate change scepticism to most recently anti-vax campaigns against the COVID-19 vaccine, we have seen time and time again that collective action on worldwide issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have been repeatedly hindered, slowed, and impeded by disinformation. 


This project aims to identify certain features of disinformation that may lead to it being spread online, and then input them into different machine learning algorithms to detect which combination of disinformation features can be best detected by which algorithms.
This project was conducted under the supervision of Prof. Owen Conlan, Mr. Dipto Barman and Mr. Ziyi Guo, with help and assistance from the ADAPT Research Centre and funding from the Laidlaw Foundation, in the summer of 2023 and during my second year of university. The full project report is still currently being written, and will be uploaded here once finished.

